Now that we've gone through the functional programming concept I hope you understand the idea of going
from procedural to functional programming at the end of the day a function without a return statement.
That's just a procedure right.
Functional programming gave us this idea of pure function and functions are useful because well we limit
repetitions every time we use a function.
It's something that is reusable we can reuse that function somewhere else.
Now one thing that you may have realized is that although functional programming has different concepts
than object oriented programming at the end of the day the goal is still the same.
To have these things in mind to write better code functional programming just like object oriented programming
is all about making your code predictable.
Now the one benefit of functional programming that you may have noticed is that it's really really good
at doing one to one data transformations.
That is we have a piece of data and we have functions acting upon it.
And in the next section we're going to compare Object Oriented Programming with functional programming
to really have a better general understanding of when to use what but to review what we've learned up
until now.
We'll notice that functional programming is quite powerful.
And once you start doing a lot of functional programming you're gonna start to see a trend towards this
idea of lists and elements of a list and this idea of lists being transformed based on these little
functions in these lists.
Well we used arrays as an example but it can be any data structure.
It can be objects.
It could be trees it could be anything that you want.
We're just acting upon data.
The thinking though with functional program is that it lays the foundation for creating these this reusable
code that we can move pieces of functions around to do different things based on our needs.
And the reason that we were able to do all of this was because javascript makes it easy to assign functions
to variables pass them into other functions return functions from functions compose functions pipe functions
javascript also allows us to use immutable concepts like primitive types or using map or code Cat on
a race object that assign cloning objects using spread operators and we learned a lot of difficult functional
programming terms but at the end of the day all the terms mean is that we're building pure functions
and we're trying to have as many pure functions as possible to try and avoid mutating state as much
as we can in order to have this clean predictable code and by the way using what you've learned now
you might look at library code differently for example in our robo friends redux app which is an app
that we built in one of my other courses.
If we go to containers and app G.S. and scroll all the way down.
This is an app build with react and we ducks and we see over here that this connect well reminds us
a lot of composed doesn't it.
We take the app which is our entire front end application or the view of the front end application and
we add different things to it.
So we take this data this view and we add properties and we add map state to props which is sort of
like actions.
So if we scroll all the way down up even if you don't know anything about react we see that map state
to props and map dispatched to props are taking some sort of state or actions and returning once again
objects that we can attach to our app things like redux really popularized the idea of functional programming
for JavaScript developers especially front end javascript developers you start to see now that reduces
and Redux while they're doing the same thing.
They have state that they receive and some actions.
And based on those actions we return a new state you see these paradigms that were developed over decades
are now being used by some of the most popular libraries for JavaScript and other programming languages.
And I hope with this section you start to notice these little things that it's not actually just extremely
clever people that you'll never be able to understand or you'll never be able to be as good as they
are all these programmers are just using the skills the paradigms that people in the past have learned
and have adapted.
So I hope now you have a better way to look at code and understand it.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.